---
title: 'Freakonomics Radio'
date: 2018-05-27
permalink: /reads/2018/05/Freakonomics/
tags:
  - Business & Management
  - Podcast
  - Social Science
---


How to Get More Grit in Your Life
------
[Transcript source](http://freakonomics.com/podcast/grit/)

Definition of Grit: 
> I define grit as passion and perseverance for especially long-term goals.

Four traits. 1: Interest - importance to long-term, what if you can't find them, and fickleness
> They cultivate something which grabs their attention initially, but that they become familiar with enough, knowledgeable enough that they wake up the next day and the next day and the next year, and they’re still interested in this thing. And I think that is something that we can actually intentionally decide: “I want to be the kind of person who stays interested in something.” And so that passion really does have to come first.

> “Following a passion” sounds like it’s there in the world fully formed, you just have to dig it up under the right bush. Really, you have to foster a passion. You have to actively put some work in and try things, and try them for a little while, and get into them, and then you have to switch, right? Part of grit is actually doing enough exploration early on, quitting enough things early on, that you can find something that you’re willing to stick with. So I don’t know that there’s an easy prescription then for telling people how exactly to do that. But I think one misunderstanding, which is very dangerous, is to suggest to people that passion just falls into your lap, and it’s love at first sight. It’s not like that. It’s not like that for the people that I’ve been studying.

> But I will say this: it is human nature to get bored of things and to seek the novel. And I think that one of the skills that one must develop in life, if one cares not to be a dilettante, if it’s a goal of yours to become expert in something, one of the skills is to learn to substitute nuance for novelty.

> I love that idea — “to substitute nuance for novelty.” So rather than constantly moving on to a new thrill, you try to find another level, another dimension, of the thing you’re already doing, to make it more thrilling.

2: Practice - Deliberate practice and passion for the whole.
> There are several components to deliberate practice, but generally, it’s about using good feedback to focus on specific (single) techniques that will lead to real improvement.

> I think there are a lot of overeager, probably very well-intentioned parents out there who are kind of like chaining their kids to the piano bench in hopes that seventh hour of practice today is going to put them on course for Juilliard or Harvard. And I think they’re seriously getting things out of order.

> "are you asking me if I love getting up at 4 in the morning, jumping into a cold pool, and swimming laps looking at a black line on the bottom, at the very edge of my physical ability where my lungs are screaming for oxygen and my arms feel like they’re about to fall off? No, I don’t, but I love the whole thing. You know, I have a passion for the whole sport.” And so that passion really does have to come first.

3: Purpose
> So it’s a beyond-the-self purpose that I’m particularly observing in grit paragons. And I used to think, well, of course that will apply to people who are working on the cure to cancer or people who are working in community organization. But, in fact, even athletes, who you might say, “Well, they’re doing something kind of selfish, right? They’re trying to win the gold medal for themselves.” But even these people who have ostensibly very personal, or you could argue, selfish interests, they really see how their work is connected to other people. Athletes will say they feel connected to their teammates, to the sport as a whole. So I think that this third stage doesn’t happen at the front for most people.

<!-- While review and writing, I still hold on to my belief that Passion is irrational and Purpose is rational -->

4: Hope - And the cyclic "you like something because you are good at it" + "you are good at it because you like it" 
> The final component is hope. And I won’t say that you only need that only after you’ve been doing something for 12 or 15 years. You really do need hope from beginning to end. Because, of course, no matter where you are in your journey, there are going to be potholes and detours and things that might make you think that it’s not worth staying on this path. So hope, essentially, is the belief that there’s something you can do to come back from these problems or from these challenges.

Levitt's opinion on hiring and passion: 
> One of the things I’ve always used as an indicator of who will be an excellent economist is the people who love it the most. So, even if they don’t have a lot of talent, even if they haven’t had a lot of good publications, when I talk to people who love economics more than anything else in the world, I know that in 10 years, they’re still going to be working as hard as they can to try to get the answers. When I find people who treat it like a job, who don’t seem to like it, but have a natural talent, I think that’s often an indicator of someone who when the going gets tough, they will not have grit.

<!-- The vision... **hope** to find a third middle ground option when there are only two conventional options. -->

> I think in part it’s because they enjoy a virtuous cycle of believing that they can change things, looking for ways that they can improve their situation, putting forth effort, in fact, making some change in their situation for the better, reaping those rewards, and the whole cycle starts over again, right?... I would just call it part of this reciprocal causality that reinforces things.

Critique on the flaws of method of measurement
> Well, not necessarily flawed, but that, as with any survey in life, it’s hard to reduce it to a number or a letter because there are different components of it. In other words, I want to give an essay answer rather than a multiple choice answer... 

> So how can you claim that grit is so important while also claiming that we’re not very good yet at measuring grit?

> So let’s take a questionnaire. They’re all fakeable. There are no un-fakeable questionnaires. There simply aren’t any. And they’re also subject to something called reference bias... you’re comparing yourself to a different standard than other people might be comparing themselves ... That’s not to say that we can’t measure anything at all and we should just throw up our hands and go home. It just means that when we measure things, we should know in what ways our measurements are imperfect. And we should know that any data that we get from these measures is going to carry signal, but also noise.

Critique on predicting career success with measure of grit
> And yes, grit is predictive, but not as predictive as something like a broad scale of conscientiousness.... You could say that that’s (spelling bees and west point) a kind of success outcome. That’s not all success outcomes, because achievement test scores are another kind of success outcome... 

> I guess it would be hard for me to believe. That the quality and the quantity of your effort doesn’t matter. That really, the great accomplishments of humankind have been made by people who labored for only minutes or weeks and not for decades. That actually it’s possible to get somewhere in life without being hopeful, without learning to practice, without having a sense of meaning, and without being interested in it.