---
title: 'After the Big Crunch - David Goodstein'
date: 2018-05-02
permalink: /reads/2018/05/Big-Crunch-Goodstein/
tags:
  - Science & Technology
  - Education
  - Article
---

What struck me most (besides the weight of the words of a high ranking academic at an extremely elite university, Caltech) was that this article was actually written more than 2 decades ago. Yet, it is just as (if not more) relevant today because there was [a recent paper by Stanford and MIT economists](https://web.stanford.edu/~chadj/IdeaPF.pdf) that supported his stance: that ideas across multiple disciplines are indeed getting harder to find and require exponentially more resources to maintain growth. Goodstein's article explains how the scientific community has erred and how to fix it.

The [original article](http://www.jstor.org/stable/40259013?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents) is a nice short read. Oh, and I wrote an essay on this topic for my sociology module, [Digital Sociology.](https://hass.sutd.edu.sg/education/undergraduate-subjects/elective/02-201-digital-sociology)

<!-- As always, I don't believe in sweeping statements like Science is hitting a wall. Personally, I think each scientific discipline have their own half-life. A few disciplines may have truly hit a wall (e.g. maths or classical mechanics, any paper that will appear on Nature is probably on P=NP or propulsion). Or they may be waiting for a new breakthrough but in the mean time remain relatively stagnant (psychology waiting for biology to map the human brain). Or their exponential growth is still in a very very early stage (e.g. cosmology's gravitational fields or quantum mechanics). As for my discipline... People are still arguing what is the "science" in "computer science". Afterall, whatever we invent/discover isn't natural per se.  -->

Goodstein's stance: 
> But the growth of the profession of science, the scientific enterprise, is bound to reach certain limits. I contend that these limits have now been reached.

Why the current system of Ph.D-to-professorships is flawed
> If American science were in a steady state condition, **the average professor in a research university would need to produce only one future research professor for the next generation**. Instead, the average professor, in the course of a typical 30-year career, turns out about 15 students with doctorates - and most such people want to be research professors. As the growth of science slowed in recent decades, it did not take long for the smarter students to realize that not everyone with a Ph.D. could become a research professor.

On the "Pipeline" view of the American education system
> At the pipeline's entrance was said to be a torrent of youngsters, curious and eager to learn. But **as they moved on through the various grades of school, they somehow lost their eagerness and curiosity,** and fewer and fewer youths showed any interest in science... If America is to have all the scientists it will need in the future, we were warned, the leaky pipeline must be fixed. Today, the fear of too few scientists has vanished from the scene, but the pipeline metaphor of science education persist.  

<!-- Note: This is pretty similar to the current state of local Ph.D candidate recruitment in Singapore as well. Market reasons was one of the primary reasons [NUS SoC decided to offer a 6k stipend](https://www.comp.nus.edu.sg/programmes/pg/tutorship/). And it's not a bonded scholarship. -->

Why the "Pipeline" view is flawed and the true purpose of American education.
> The purpose of American education is not to produce holders of doctoral degrees in science or in anything else. The purpose is to create knowledgeable citizens of American democracy who can contribute to their own and the common good. To regard such citizens as somehow deficient because they lack advanced degrees in science is silly, not to mention insulting

On the suggested "mining-and-sorting" view of the system
> (An) operation designed to discover and rescue diamonds in the rough, ones capable of being cleaned and cut and polished into glittering gems, just like us, the existing scientists. Meanwhile, all the other human rocks and stones are indifferently tossed aside in the course of the operation. Thus, **science education at all levels is largely a dreary business, a burden to student and teacher alike**.

> This alternative metaphor helps to explain why, in all of the industrialized world, the United States has, simultaneously and paradoxically, both the best scientists and the most scientifically illiterate young people... At the same time that American scientists, trained in American graduate schools, win more Nobel Prizes than the scientists of any other country (while) the students in American schools invariably rank at or near the bottom of all students from advanced nations in tests of scientific knowledge.

On basic schooling
> ... In many colleges, elementary education is the only major that does not require even a single science course. Worse, it is said that many students (future teachers) who choose that major do so precisely to avoid having to take a course in science. To the extent that that is true, elementary school teachers are not merely ignorant of science but determined to remain ignorant. That being so, they can hardly be expected to encourage their students to take an interest in science

<!-- Note: This used to be the case in Singapore's NIE as well. Back in my days, the grades to enter NIE for bachelor's is [relatively low](http://www3.ntu.edu.sg/oad2/website_files/IGP/AY12-13_IGP.pdf). Fortunately, the grades this year has [improved very significantly](http://www3.ntu.edu.sg/oad2/website_files/IGP/NTU_IGP.pdf)... I think the progress in improving teacher's image is in the right direction. -->

More signs from a flawed system
> But after about 1970 and the Big Crunch, the gleaming gems produced at the end of the vast mining-and-sorting operation produced less often from American ore. Research professors and their universities, using ore imported from across the oceans, kept the machinery humming.

<!-- Note: Again, largely true in Singapore and pretty much every top university in the world. -->

On the need of public funding for basic research
> Pure research in basic science does not reliably yield immediate profit. Hence, if it is to flourish, private support will never be enough. Public funds will continue to be essential. If that support from the public purse is to be forthcoming, there must be a broad political consensus that basic science is a common good. It is a common good, for two reasons: first, it helps to satisfy the human need to understand the universe we inhabit, and second, it makes new technologies available.

And the near-future trouble of funding for basic research
> But to get the public - in the absence of a war, hot or cold - to agree that basic science is worth substantial funding, we scientists are going to have to do a much better job of education than we have in the past. **Really teaching science to people who will never be scientists is not going to be easy.** The frontiers of science are far removed from most people's everyday experience. Unfortunately, we scientists so far have not found a good way of bringing people in large numbers along as "tourists" on our scientific explorations.

