---
title: 'Design meets Disability - Graham Pullin'
date: 2018-04-30
permalink: /reads/2018/04/Design-Meets-Disability/
tags:
  - Design
---

I read this book for inspiration and research during [the button project.](../../../../portfolio/portfolio-1/)

Expression Meets Information
------

Main idea: Communication devices should not only be about conveying information but also about expressing emotions.
> Of course, human communication is as much about social
interaction as it is about conveying information. The quantity
of information or the accuracy with which it is transmitted is
often less significant than its qualities; **what** is said is often less
important than **how** it is said.

Nine ways to say yes
> The meaning of the simplest utterances depends as much
on tone of voice as the choice of words. The word yes can be
delivered as a positive, affirmative response to a question, but
said differently, it can express detachment, sarcasm, disbelief,
or tentativeness instead, undermining the questioner rather
than agreeing with or reassuring them. Linguist David Crystal
has illustrated this with intonation diagrams of nine different
ways of responding “yes” in English to the same question,
but he says that “no one has yet described all of the nuances
of meaning that can be conveyed by the intonation system." 
Nine ways is nowhere near the richness of expression that
most speakers employ. 

> In contrast, users of current communication aids have little
or no control over intonation. Most systems are based on text-to-speech technology.

Finding your voice: Stephen Hawking's identity
> Despite this, Hawking has declined an updated synthetic
voice with so-called realistic speech, saying that the roboticsounding
speech is now “his voice.” “The only trouble is that
it gives me an American accent,” explains Hawking, but do
people ascribe that accent to him or to the U.S. technology?12
It has become part of his public identity. He has even described
it as his trademark.

> But as the technology progresses, what qualities will
determine the acceptance of a synthesized voice by its user
and the people they talk to? Just as some amputees can feel
uncomfortable with a cosmetic prosthesis out of proportion
with the rest of their body and so “not their hand,” but also
one that is too eerily realistic, even macabre, perhaps as the
naturalness of text-to-speech improves, there may be interest
in creating synthetic voices that are sensitive yet acknowledge
their own artificiality.

Speaker's expression vs listener's understanding.
> It cites French information theoretician
Abraham Moles’s theory that aesthetic pleasure is determined
by the balance of the originality of the message and the ability
of the recipient to understand it.

> Too often communication aids designed for adults
look as though they are intended either for young children or
computer programmers, and perhaps even designed by young
children or computer programmers. In our culture we take for
granted a visual sophistication in most things, from newspapers
and book covers, to websites and packaging. How much
more appropriate to find this in something as profound as a
communication aid?


