---
title: 'HBR Radio (podcast)'
date: 2018-05-27
permalink: /reads/2018/05/HBR/
tags:
  - Business & Management
  - Podcast
  - Social Science
---

Excerpts and quotes of selected podcast episodes

Getting People to Help You
------
Transcript [source](https://hbr.org/ideacast/2018/06/getting-people-to-help-you.html)



Networking Myths Dispelled
------
Transcript [source](https://hbr.org/ideacast/2018/08/networking-myths-dispelled)



Ask Better Questions
------
Transcript [source](https://hbr.org/ideacast/2018/05/ask-better-questions.html)

Under-asking and the benefits of asking: information exchange, interpersonal liking, persuasion.
> Um, let me start simply by saying that most people do not ask enough questions and they’re missing out on many, many benefits, including that asking questions opens up the door for the exchange of information. When I ask you questions, I’m going to, you’re going to answer most likely and I’m going to learn what’s in your mind. So that’s information exchange, it’s very valuable. In addition to information exchange, we know that asking questions increases interpersonal liking because I’m showing that I’m interested in learning and what’s in your mind, I seem very responsive to you and empathic and I’m taking your perspective and I care about you. And that’s likable. Uh, we also know that asking questions increases persuasion, uh, again, because I’m taking your perspective, instead of trying to sell, sell, sell, I’m learning what you need and then I can deliver that to you.

Effective questions: 

### 1. Anticipating lies (extracting sensitive information)
> So in situations where someone may be tempted to lie to you, if you ask a question that presupposes the thing that they don’t want to tell you to be true, that’s a more effective strategy to getting them to tell you the truth than a question that does the opposite. So an example would be, imagine your, this is really simple, imagine you’re talking to a supplier and you’re wondering whether the supplier is going to deliver on time. Um, so the sensitive piece of information that the supplier may be reticent to divulge is that no, we’re not going to be on time. So you could ask them, you could say you’re going to be on time, right? That is kind of an optimistic assumption or you could say, I’m guessing you might be kind of late, right? And that would be a pessimistic assumption. So it’s easier for the supplier to tell the truth when you ask it in a pessimistic way because they just have to kind of confirm something... The basic point is that you want to make it easy for the other party in these competitive situations.

### 2. Open questions for interviews/brainstorm. Closed questions for competitive conversations
> Now, if you shift to a more competitive conversation where people will be guarded about the information they have, then pointed questions can be very effective at trying to suss out the truth. It’s, it’s very hard to lie explicitly to someone’s face when I say, okay, you’re selling me this used iPod hasn’t been damaged in the past. It’s so much harder to say no. Right, right to my face with a yes, no question. Then if I say, tell me about the history of this iPod. Then you can lie by omission quite easily.

### 3. Follow-up questions are always better than going-down-the-list questions
> But most of the time questions that are follow up questions are topic-switching questions. So I might say things like, where are you from? Listen, listen, listen, listen. Do you like the band U2? Listen, listen, listen, listen. So it feels like you’re working your way down the list of topics, which is okay, but it would be much more engaging and interesting to say, where are you from? Oh, I’ve been to Tuscaloosa. Do you live in this neighborhood? I had a friend who was from there were, you know, where did you grow up? What were your parents like? What did your house look like? What do you regret about growing up there? All kinds of follow-up questions that make it really engaging. 

  False dichotomy of competitive/coop conversations. Reality is both and asking questions doesn't hurt.
>  I will argue that in almost every scenario, whether it’s cooperative or competitive, asking questions doesn’t hurt. It hurts a lot less than people think. So we’re very reticent to ask questions because we’re afraid that we’re going to ask something that’s rude or incompetent or inappropriate and in our results and our findings, we find that there are very few questions that people perceive as rude, incompetent or inappropriate, um, and so, and then especially follow-up questions. So just start somewhere, listen to their answer, and then follow up.

<!-- Okay, there is a little contradiction in the next point... -->

### 4. Easy questions work better in cooperative conversations. Tough questions work better in competitive conversations
> And one way that we have been thinking about it comes down to this goal of the interaction. So if you’re in a, if the goal is to foster a relationship and if it’s a very cooperative environment, then starting with easing your way into things I think is conducive to accomplishing that goal. But if on the other hand, the goal is a competitive situation where the goal is information elicitation, then starting with the most sensitive questions can increased disclosure overall. It’s again though not without its risks, like if the first question you ask is extremely sensitive, you risk really offending the person and having them walk away from you. So not without its risks 

  Balance sombreness tone (to assure confidentiality) and casual tone (to create comfort)
>  we’ve found that especially when you’re asking for sensitive question are kind of inclination might be that we should adopt a very somber tone and we should really reiterate to the person that everything’s confidential, don’t worry, it’s going to be okay, whatever you say. But what we found is that sometimes the more assurances we give to people, the more worrisome it is for that person to disclose. And so what we find is that if you’re a little more casual about it and nonchalant about the way you ask questions, that can make the other party more comfortable responding. I’m responding to your questions.

### 5. Break norms whenever you can
> And anytime that you can break those norms—so if you’re expected to answer questions, why not try asking one instead? Anytime you can break those norms, I think it keeps things engaging and interesting.

>  ... that certain members of the group, and this happens with women and I think just young people broadly, or maybe low-status people, feel like they need to have something really great to say, like they need to have a brilliant statement to make in order to speak up and say something in a group context. Turns out that it’s really, really useful to just be the person who asks questions that might open a new important topic area or guide the conversation in a useful way.

On difficult questions. 
1. Pre-empt by writing them
> ... Almost always they can be anticipated. You just have to ask yourself like, what are the things someone could ask me that will keep me up at night, that will make me feel awful and write them down. Right? So, if you have an important presentation and important meeting and there are questions that you’re afraid someone will ask, don’t run away from that. Confront it, write them down, write down pithy, succinct responses to them. Practice saying the answers out loud, or practice your dodges out loud. For any question that you could possibly get, there is a way to answer it and there’s a way to dodge it.

2. Deflect by asking: "Why do you ask?" or "What do you think?"
> For what it’s worth, my favorite go-to of when I gasp, haven’t prepared or don’t know what I’m going to say, and I’m asked a question and I don’t know what to say, my favorite line of defense is deflection by question. Asking, well why do you ask?

3. Use humor :)
> One is if you can practice your humor skills, jokes are really, really easy way to dodge things because people are so distracted laughing that they forget what question was asked them that you didn’t answer it. 
