---
title: 'The Birth of the Modern World, 1780-1914 - Christopher Bayly'
date: 2018-04-30
permalink: /reads/2018/04/Birth-Of-The-Modern-World/
tags:
  - History
  - HASS
---

I've read parts of this book for the course, "Questioning Modernity in Europe and Asia", on the topic of nationalism.

Chapter 6: Nation, Empire, and Ethnicity, c.1860-1900
------

Sir Bayly's stance: 
> The chapter argues that the more vigorous stirring of nationality in the late nineteenth century was a global phenomenon. It emerged contemporaneously in large parts of Asia, Africa, and the Americas, rather than first in Europe, later to be exported "overseas."

Theory 1: Natural communities of language and culture
> One set of ideas about nationalism ... argues that modern nations emerged naturally out of earlier communities of language and culture.


> Adrian Hastings has made the case strongly for England and France. Historians of Vietnam, Sri Lanka, and Japan have argued for similar continuities.

Theory 2: Urbanization and industrialization
> (The anthropologist and philosopher Ernest Gellner argued) that nationalism was closely connected with urbanization and industrialization. He observed that ... it was the people congregated in new urban centers who were most likely to portray themselves as unified peoples and to demand statehood.


> It was, for instance, the melee of Hungarians, Serbs, and Italians in nineteenth-century Vienna and their competition for resources and jobs which tended to harden the distinctions between these “races” and propel their demands for national autonomy. 

Theory 3: Political maneuvers
> (As Eric Hobsbawm and John Breuilly argued), nationalism follows the state, not vice versa. (They) have argued that the conscious policy of new political elites was what created nationalism. States promoted popular education, defined citizenship and its duties, counted and imprisoned people. 

Theory 3.1: Printing press
> Nations were “imagined communities” created by “print capitalism.” The diffusion of books and newspapers across the world inscribed a sense of belonging in the minds of those elites and, later, ordinary people who read them (Benedict Anderson).

Condition for theories: Armed conflict
> Nationalism defined itself against “others.” The experience of common military service, basic education in the ranks, and elite leadership widely transformed peasants and workers into nationalists. In turn, this militarized nationalism often gave rise to further wars and invasions. 

Proposition 1: "Old patriotisms" 
> ... in several world regions, including non-European societies, such as northern Vietnam, Korea, Japan, and Ethiopia, leaderships steadily and over long periods transformed older sentiments of patriotic attachment to land into more aggressive and exclusive understandings of nationality.

Proposition 2: Abrupt assertion after 1860s
>  ... particularly in the complex large polities of eastern Eurasia and North Africa, the change came more abruptly ... international war and colonialism drove intellectuals and publicists to adopt the language and practices of modern nationalism. 

Proposition 3: Others after 1914
> Thirdly, there were areas, such as the central Ottoman lands and parts of Austria-Hungary, Russia, and even parts of southern Ireland, where nationalism had still not emerged as a coherent set of ideas and political practices even in 1914.

Why colonial powers implemented minority-based policies
> Here the advantages of policies of “divide and rule” became more prominent. In part, this arose from political calculation. An army composed of indigenous minority groups, different from, and suspect to, the majority populations was less likely to turn against the colonialists. The headmen, rajas, or chiefs of such groups might also provide a useful counterweight to aspiring nationalist leaderships.

Harsh words for America
> Indeed, Americans had been pioneers of racist and eugenic theorizing.

On "New Imperialism"
>  It does seem that the imperial expansion of the period after 1870, like the intensity of its competing nationalisms, was of a different order from that of the previous period... that the new imperialism was closely linked to the more strident European nationalism which was considered earlier in this chapter. (For French invasion of West Africa and Sudan)..., trade and local defense were not really the motive. The French Overseas Army wanted to achieve domestic recognition and international glory in an atmosphere still darkened by France's defeat by Prussia in 1871. (For the invasion of China during the Boxer Rebellion and the African partition)... the economic benefits of the second age of global imperialism were always less tangible than those of the first, in 1780-1820. 

On the history of the passport: From privilege to political surveillance
> Until recently, little work has been done on that preeminent tool for controlling international boundaries, the passport. But the history of the passport clearly indicates the transition between global networks of emigration and the internationalism of the nation-state. In the eighteenth century, elite traders and nobles moved readily across much of Europe. It was the poor and the peasantry who were tied to the land and needed papers to move around. The external passport was a royal letter, a boon which was conferred on great nobles, clerics, and others, royal protection and a request that they would not be hindered by the petty officials of another king’s realm. In Europe and the Americas, the passport became a tool of external political surveillance only during the French Revolution, when governments tried to control the movement across their borders of political agitators, or in the case of the French Republic, reactionaries and royalists.

